+ Right click on a local repo and select 'Git Bash Here'
	This opens a command line with the path to your directory already set

+ Type in the command line 'git init'
	This creates a .git hidden folder in your repo, that contains all the files that git needs to control this repo.
	From now on this particular folder is controlled.

+ At the moment however no files are being controlled: to add a file to the git repository you just created use git add filename.extension

+ You can add a single file, a lis of files, all files with a certain extension or all files with all extensions

+ The added files get staged for commit. If a file is modified it gets off the stage. 
  To put it back on stage you have to add it again.

+ To create a snapshot of the current situation in your repo, you have to commit the files.
  When you d it, a sort of checkpoint is created. And it is registered who created it and what was changed. With additional
  comments you have to add when you commit. You commit through the git commit command.
  You can just use the git commit command, which opens an editor where you have to type your comments to the commit,
  or you can do it with the additional option -m, which allows you to add the comments right in line with the git commit command itself.

+ Remember that you don't want to commit every change you make.
  You just want to commit when your changes reach a state that you'd prefer to save.

+ You can create a list of files and directories you don't want to track. To do so you need 
  to create the .gitignore file and write in it the files and directories to ignore.

+ Branching: VERY IMPORTANT.
  Branching allows to create new work flows, new branches starting from the master branch. 
  we create  branch using 'git branch nameofthebranch'
  When you are in a branch you can create new files, new folders, modify the files, add stuff.. and none of this
  will influence the other branches. the main branch is called 'master'.

+ Branches can be merged to the master branch, to inclued the changes you developed.


IMPORTANT COMMANDS
touch name.extention
	creates the file name.extention in the current folder

clear 
	clear the command window

git --version 
	returns the version of git you have installed

git init 
	initializes the folder as a git repository	

git status 
	shows the status of the files: which are in the stage area,
	which have to be committed, which have to be added (i.e. the untracked files) 

git config --global user.name 'name'
	change the global configurations and modify your name

git config --global user.email 'email@email.com'
	change the global configurations and modify your name

git config 
	other options are:
	- user.name
	- user.email
	- author.name
	- author.email
	- committer.name
	- committer.email

git config --global credential.helper store
	stores the GitHub credentials.

git add namefile.extension
	adds a file from the folder to the git repository you are working in

git add namefile1.extension namefile2.extension namefile3.extension
	adds a list of files from the folder to the git repository you are working in

git add *.extension 
	adds all files from the folder with this extension to the repository you are working in

git add .
	adds all files from the folder to the repository you are working in

git rm namefile.extension
	removes the file from the stage 

git rm namefile1.extension namefile2.extension namefile3.extension
	removes the list of files from the stage

git rm *.extension 
	removes all files with this extension from the stage

git rm .
	removes all files from the stage

git rm [] --cached
	whie git rm removes the files, the option --cached
	leaves them on the disk: it just unstages them.
	[] is any of the commands listed for git rm.

git commit 
	first step to commit your files. An editor is opened.

	If this editor is opened in a new window follow these instructions:
	- press 'i'
		You have to press 'i' to activate the insert mode.
	- Type your comment
		Once in insert mode you can type your comments about the commit. 
		Comments are mandatory to submit the commit.
		(In this window a # starts an unread comment).
	- press 'esc'
		Once you typed the comment you have to press 'esc' to leave the insert mode.
	- type ':wq' and press enter
		this submits the commit

	if the file is opened in a text editor, follow these commands:
	- Type your comment 
		Comments are mandatory to submit the commit.
		(In this window a # starts an unread comment).
	- save and close the file from the text editor
		Once you typed the comment just save and close the file.

git commit -m 'my comment'
	an option of the git commit command that skips the editing stage and just let you add 
	your comments from the command line.

git commit -a -m 'my comment'
	-a is an additional option that lets you skip the git add command. 
	it adds everything and then commits.

touch .gitignore 
	creates the gitignore file. This file will contain the list of all files we don't want to
	track. Those files are not added to the stage even if we use the 'git add .' command.
	To add a file you just type its name in the gitignore file.
	To not track a whole directory you write '/directoryname' in the gitignore file.
	remember that any file in a subfolder must have the relative path right before its name.
	Changes added to a branch have to be added and committed.

git branch nameofthebranch
	creates a new branch, starting from the current one

git checkout nameofthebranch
	this switches to the nameofthebranch branch. You use it to start working in that branch.

git merge nameofthebranch
	once we completed our changes in the branched project, if we are sure they work, 
	we can merge them to the master branch. 
	You run this command from the master, to merge the nameofthebranch branch to the mater.
	This opens an editor where to add comments about this merge.

	If this editor is opened in a new window follow these instructions:
	- press 'i'
		You have to press 'i' to activate the insert mode.
	- Type your comment
		Once in insert mode you can type your comments about the merge.
		Comments are mandatory to submit the merge.
		(In this window a # starts an unread comment).
	- press 'esc'
		Once you typed the comment you have to press 'esc' to leave the insert mode.
	- type ':wq' and press enter
		this submits the merge

	if the file is opened in a text editor, follow these commands:
	- Type your comment 
		Comments are mandatory to submit the merge.
		(In this window a # starts an unread comment).
	- save and close the file from the text editor
		Once you typed the comment just save and close the file.

git merge nameofthebranch -m 'comments about the branch'
	an option of the git merge command that skips the editing stage and just let you add 
	your comments from the command line.

git remote 
	lists the current remote (i.e. online) repositories 

git remote add nameofremoterepo urltoremoterepo
	adds the remote repo to le list of remote repos. It is mandatory in order to push the local repo 
	to the nameoftheremoterepo repo

git remote rename oldname newname
	renames the rmote repo from oldname to newname

git push --set-upstream origin master
	the first time you push you have to add 

git push 
	pushes your committed changes to the remote repo (es. on GitHub)

git clone  linktotheremoterepo
	clones the remote repo connected to the link and creates a new local folder on your device.

git pull 
	updates the changes to the repo, downloading them from the online repo.

git branch -v 
	shows the last commits of every branch

git mv old_name.old_extension new_name.new_extension
	renames the file old_name.old_extension to new_name.new_extension

git log 
	shows th list of commits, with date, hash, author, version...

git log -p
	Show the patch introduced with each commit.

git log --stat
	Show statistics for files modified in each commit.

git log --graph
	Display an ASCII graph of the branch and merge history beside the log output.

git log --pretty=option
	Show commits in an alternate format, where 'option' can be:
	- oneline
	- short
	- full
	- fuller
	- format:
		this last option lets you choose the output format. 
		after 'format:' you specify the info you want to have displayed. 
		Avaliable info are:
		- %H
			Commit hash
		- %h
			Abbreviated commit hash
		- %T
			Tree hash
		- %t
			Abbreviated tree hash
		- %P
			Parent hashes
		- %p
			Abbreviated parent hashes
		- %an
			Author name
		- %ae
			Author e-mail
		- %ad
			Author date (format respects the –date= option)
		- %ar
			Author date, relative
		- %s
			Subject

		These info have to be submitted as a string like this: "%h - %an, %ae: %s"
		Where everything is not an info (" - ";", "; ": ") is just printed as it is.

	As usual, more than one option can be included.

Other log options:
	-(n)
		Show only the last n commits

	--since, --after
		Limit the commits to those made after the specified date.

	--until, --before
		Limit the commits to those made before the specified date.

	--author
		Only show commits in which the author entry matches the specified string.

	--committer
		Only show commits in which the committer entry matches the specified string.

	--grep
		Only show commits with a commit message containing the string

	-S
		Only show commits adding or removing code matching the string

	More info and explainations here
	https://git-scm.com/book/it/v2/Git-Basics-Viewing-the-Commit-History


git branch -M newname
	renames the current branch to 'newname'

git config --global init.defaultBranch newname
	sets the default name of the master branch to 'newname'